# AI Biology Question Generator

## Context
In recent years, the field of science education has been greatly changed by the adoption of new learning standards known as the Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS). Originally released in 2013, the NGSS learning standards are built on three core pillars: Science and Engineering Practices, Crosscutting Concepts, and Disciplinary Core Ideas. New York State is currently implementing new life science learning standards that are largely based on the NGSS. Starting in the 2024 to 2025 school year, high school teachers have to prepare students for a new Life Science: Biology exam based on the new standards. The state education department has provided exam preparation readings and sample exam questions to help teachers plan their instruction. Yet, some teachers feel confused about the types of questions on the exam despite the available resources provided by the state department. 

This project is designed to support New York State teachers in preparing students for the new Life Science: Biology exam. Using the [crewAI](https://crewai.com) framework and [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/docs/overview) LLM service, I have built a multi-agent tool that can generate exam questions that are aligned with the expectations for the new exam. This tool is by no means a complete solution to exam preparation. It is meant to be one of the many available online resources for teachers.

Here is how it works:

1. User selects a major theme in biology
2. User selects the specific skills and knowledge to be assessed
3. User can optionally provide a real-life biological phenomenon to anchor the context of the questions
4. The tool generates a reading about a biological phenomenon and exam questions related to the phenomenon

The materials generated by the tool can be further edited by the user on their own. Teachers are encouraged to treat the generated content as a starting point and modify it to meet the learning needs of their students.

## API Access
The agent system is called by a HTTP request to a Flask API endpoint hosted on PythonAnywhere.

## Client UI
Currently developing the frontend UI for users to send requests to the API and receive the generated questions.